Link to my video: https://youtu.be/kvJjP9DgGw8

This project is a player vs. player chess game. The game allows users to drag the chess pieces to legal squares in the chessboard by highlighting the possible moves for that particular piece (pawn, knight, bishop, rook, queen, and king) that the user could make once the user clicks and holds on the piece. The game ensures that only one move is made by each side alternating, just as the rules of chess allow. In addition, the game can be reset using the space key on the keyboard. Features such as pawn promotion and castling in chess are also implemented based on the rules of the chess game. A full game can be played through player vs. player on this chess board. 

On how to run the files at hand, all of the Python files must be downloaded, as well as the file called images which includes the icons of the chess pieces. Using VS Studio code, then opening all the Python files and images file will be necessary. After this has been achieved, the file called main.py should be run, and this will lead to the chess game popping up (the pygame library should be installed on the computer in order for this to work). Once the chess game has popped up, then the chess game can be played!

With the chess game, I would recommend trying out various moves just how you would start out a regular chess game, and seeing the possible moves highlighted as a certain piece is clicked. Also, trying out cool features such as castling would also enhance the chess experience. When a player is in check, that player can not move any elements that would allow the opposing player to have a free capture of the king. For example, moving a white bishop in the diagonal with the king would make the black pawn that covers the king impossible to move (the valid moves are removed for that piece). Or if one player’s king is in direct attack of the opposing team’s piece, the player can only move in such a way that would directly block the king, and cannot move any other piece. At the end, users can press the space key on the keyboard to reset the game pieces.
